---
title: Description
permalink: 0.2-description.html
sidebar: connman
product: Connman
---

## Description

This Project Provides: Internet connection daemon source code

### The Value of ConnMan Project

ConnMan is a daemon for managing Internet connections within embedded device and integrates a vast range of communication features usually split between many daemons such as DHCP, DNS and NTP. The result of this consolidation is low memory consumption with a fast, coherent, synchronized reaction to changing network conditions.

ConnMan is a fully modular system that can be extended, through plug-ins, to support all kinds of wired or wireless technologies. The plug-in approach allows for easy adaption and modification for various use cases.

It is used with the embedded Yocto build system, is part of the GENIVI In-Vehicle-Infotainment specification, Jolla* Sailfish* based phones, Nest* thermostats, Aldebaran Robotics, and Linux-based personal video recorders (PVRs).

### Who It’s For

ConnMan is utilized primarily by operating system vendors, system builders (including system Integrators and Original Device Manufacturers) who are building customized Linux solutions.

### Project Specifics

ConnMan is distributed under the GPL v2.0 license.

### About Intel Involvement

Intel has led the ConnMan project since its inception, ensuring highly integrated work amongst other Linux communication projects such as BlueZ*(Bluetooth*), oFono (Cellular), neard (Near Field Communications) and PacRunner (JavaScript* and static proxy configuration support). ConnMan is optimized through open source for embedded and client focused Intel® Quark technology, Intel® Atom™ processors and Intel® Core™ processors.

{% include note.html content="Project leadership by Intel ended around May 2021. Since then the project is hosted on kernel.org." %}